A well-designed body
is indeed a reason for us to rejoice.
Certain body parts
help us to perceive the world around us.
For example,
please turn with me to Proverbs 20:12.
Let us see what the Scriptures say
in connection with two sensory organs.
Here at Proverbs 20:12, we read:
“The hearing ear and the seeing eye
—Jehovah has made both of them.”
Yes, our ability
to hear and see is from Jehovah.
How grateful we are
that he has given us the senses!
They allow us to enjoy life more fully.
The ear, for example,
allows us to hear delightful sounds.
How does it make you feel
when you hear birds chirping
or the relaxing sound of a babbling brook?
And how we cherish
hearing the voice of a loved one
—maybe your mate,
your father or mother, or your child!
We also enjoy beautiful music.
Even those who cannot hear can enjoy music.
Some connect with a song’s bass notes
or its speed rather than its melody.
In the following video,
note how Jehovah created us
to enjoy a wide variety of sounds.
Our world is full of sounds.
Some are natural.
Others we create.
We can hear music before we’re born
and can develop a love of music as we grow.
We can compose music,
be moved by it,
and replay it in our minds.
Musical instruments typically
combine a sound generator,
which produces tones
with a resonator,
such as wood or metal,
which adds volume.
The design resembles our own vocal organs.
But few instruments compare
to the beauty of the human voice.
Our hearing complements the voice.
We can listen to things
that draw us closer to God
and use the voice he gave us
to praise him with joy.
“Praise Jah, for Jehovah is good.
“Sing praises to his name,
for it is pleasant.”
Yes, sounds definitely enrich our life;
they make our life more enjoyable.
Does this not instill in us
the desire to praise Jehovah?
Now let us, please, open to Isaiah 30:21.
Here we see that ears and hearing
are sometimes used
in a figurative way in the Bible.
Isaiah 30:21 reads:
“And your own ears
will hear a word behind you saying,
“‘This is the way.
“Walk in it,’
in case you should go to the right
or in case you should go to the left.”
We can hear Jehovah’s figurative voice
from his Word, the Bible,
and from his guidance
through the holy spirit in the congregation.
Jehovah’s guidance is so clear
that it is as if we could hear him
speaking to us.
Let me ask you a question:
Does the sound of Jehovah’s voice
make you enjoy life?
Does it make you rejoice?
I suppose you would all answer
with a clear yes.
Jehovah’s voice is a delightful sound.
We all know how good it feels
when we apply Jehovah’s guidance
and enjoy success in life.
Let’s think again about our literal ears.
They are very sensitive,
so we need to protect them.
Certain sounds, or noise,
can even damage them.
So to protect our hearing,
we might use acoustic earmuffs
to block out harmful noise.
But what about our figurative ears?
Do we need to protect them too?
Are there sounds out there that can harm us?
Yes, there are.
The reality is that we live in a world
full of damaging and unpleasant noise.
So, then, how can we protect ourselves?
Here are three measures we need to take.
First, block out the harmful noise around us.
We can put on noise-canceling headphones.
In other words,
we refuse to listen to anything
that can distance us from Jehovah.
Like what?
Deceptive reasoning and false accusations,
for example, are very dangerous.
They undermine our trust
in Jehovah’s organization.
Some who were once part
of the Christian congregation
now attempt to mislead us.
They spread half-truths and outright lies
about Jehovah’s organization.
Harmful sounds might also come
from non-Christian workmates,
schoolmates, or contacts on social media.
They do not share our beliefs,
so conversations with them
are rarely faith-strengthening.
They might weaken our faith,
making our Christian life course
more difficult.
Therefore, we need to protect our ears
from damaging noise
by not listening to it.
What is the second way
to protect ourselves from damaging sounds?
Headphones can help us
block out the noise around us
and replace it with something delightful
—maybe a favorite song.
So put on our figurative headphones
and listen to wholesome things
—our favorite sounds,
delightful sounds from Jehovah.
This is what we hear
at our Christian meetings.
And when we sing at our Christian meetings,
like we’ve seen in the video,
our sounds praise Jehovah.
What we read in our publications,
what we see on our website,
what we hear in upbuilding conversations
with our brothers and sisters
—all of these beautiful sounds
protect our ears.
A third aid for protecting our ears
is Jehovah’s help.
Sometimes we might not feel like
putting on our headphones.
We might argue:
‘It is so much more comfortable without them.
The damage to my ears
will not be that serious.’
Now, this is where Jehovah comes into play.
He will help us listen to his voice
whenever we ask him for his help in prayer.
He will motivate us
to put on our headphones, so to speak.
He gives us the inner strength
to stop listening
to sounds that might be tempting
and yet are so dangerous.
So, what are the three ways
to protect our figurative ears?
We stop listening to damaging sounds,
we listen to wholesome things,
and we pray for Jehovah’s help.
Dear brothers and sisters,
Jehovah created sounds
because he wants us to enjoy life.
Please let us continue
to make wise use of our hearing,
and then we will rejoice
in hearing delightful sounds forever.
Brother John Ekrann,
a helper to the Coordinators’ Committee,
will now present
the last talk of this symposium:
“Creation Proves
That Jehovah Wants Us to Rejoice
—Fascinating Animals.”